# Lab 1: Virtual Machine and C Practice

This is the starting readme for this assignment. Please edit the following information by removing the "edit me" and replace it with appropriate information your assignment. If it is asking you a question, please provide a response. 

    Name: edit me
    Github Account Name: edit me
    How many hours did it take you to complete this assignment? edit me
    Did you collaborate with any other students/TAs/Professors? If so, tell us who and in what capacity.
        edit me (add more rows if needed)
    Did you use any external resources? (Cite them below)
        edit me
        edit me and add more rows if needed

For this assignment, don't forget to include the screenshots in your repository in .png format!

Important notes

    Your code must compile and run on the Khoury machines to earn credit. Make sure you test your programs on these machines, as this is where we grade your assignments.

# Instructions

You should now know some of the basics of the C language. This lab will help you practice applying your new knowledge. Remember, you are allowed to develop locally, but you will be graded on whether your solutions work on the Khoury servers. Refer to the labs and homework from last week to remind yourself how to get access to the Khoury servers.

Inside your repo you've been given a program called `main.c` to fill out.

1. Create a function with the signature `long power(int base, unsigned int n)`. You should write a function that performs exponentiation for positive numbers, raising the base passed into the power of n. You CANNOT import the math.h library for this assignment. This function should work for any positive integer base and any positive integer n, until we begin to have problems storing large number results.

2. Your main program will call your `power` function **in a loop** to test it, computing the first 10 powers of two from `power(2,1)` to `power(2,10)`. Print out these results to the terminal with a statement "2 to the power of <x> is: <answer>", where <x> is the loop variable and <answer> is the result your function returns. So it should read "2 to the power of 1 is: 2" for the first time the function is called in the loop. You have to compute all the results from  and print each of them. Do not take in any user input. 
Note: Your power function only needs to handle positive values.

3. You must compile your program with: `gcc -Wall -Werror main.c -o main` to see if it works. You can then type `./main` to run the program

4. As you work towards a working program, remember to add/commit/push your files to your repo. We do not need to include any of the temporary files that may be generated by the compiler. We have included a file called .gitignore that will prevent you from adding these temporary files but you should try to avoid adding the executable as well.

5. Your program cannot use the `math.h` library, and it must not use any other library function that calculates exponents. The whole point of this exercise is that you're writing a function that calculates exponents itself given the parameters base and n.
   
### :star: REMINDER :star:
Make sure to commit between each change! For example, you fix spaces, you do a git commit -m'fixed spaces in strings'. Then you fix the return statement, you do a `git commit -m'fixed return statement in (func name)'`. Then you fix the logic, you do a `git commit -m'fixed logic in (location)'`.
